## 3.5.13

### 1

The new rules are as follows:

$if\ true\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow t_3$ (E-Funny1)

$if\ true\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow t_2$   (E-IfTrue)

$if\ false\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow t_3$ (E-IfFalse)

$\frac{t_1\rightarrow t_1'}{if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow if\ t_1'\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3}$ (E-If)

**Theroem 3.5.4** does not hold. Suppose $t$ has the form of $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ , where $t_1=true$. Applying E-Funny1 and E-IfTrue respectively to the derivation of the two evaluations gives $t\rightarrow t_3$ and $t\rightarrow t_2$ . But $t_2$ is not necessarily equal to $t_3$ .

**Theroem 3.5.7** still holds, because the new rule do not introduce an evaluation rule from a value to another term.

**Theroem 3.5.8** still holds. We proove it by prooving its contrapositive proposition: It $t$ is not a value, then $t$ is not in normal form. By structural induction on $t$. Since $t$ is not a value, it must be in the form of $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$. 

- case1: $t_1=true$ , we can apply E-Funny1 or E-IfTrue to $t$, so $t$ is not in normal form;

- case2: $t_1=false$ , we can apply E-IfFalse to $t$, so $t$ is not in normal form;

- case3: $t_1$ is in the form of $if\ t_1'\ then\ t_2'\ else\ t_3'$ . Since $t_1$ is not a value, by the induction hypothesis, we know that $t_1$ is not in normal form. So there exists $t_1''$ so that $t_1\rightarrow t_1''$ . This means we can apply E-If to $t$, so $t$ is not in normal form.

**Theroem 3.5.11** does not hold. The counter example is the same as **Theroem 3.5.4**

**Theroem 3.5.12** still holds. By structural induction on $t$:

- case1: $t=true$ , $t\rightarrow^* true$

- case2: $t=false$, $t\rightarrow^* false$

- case3: $t$ is in the form of $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$. By the induction hypothesis, we know that there exists $t_1'$ in normal form so that $t_1\rightarrow t_1'$ . By **Theroem 3.5.8**, we know $t_1'$ is a value (either true or false). So after evaluating $t_1\rightarrow t_1'$, we can apply one of the rules from E-Funny1, E-IfTrue, E-IfFalse. That means either $t\rightarrow t_2$ or $t\rightarrow t_3$. By the induction hypothesis, both $t_2$ and $t_3$ can finally be evaluated into normal forms, so $t$ finally evalutes to be in normal form.

### 2

The new rules are as follows:

$if\ true\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow t_2$ (E-IfTrue)

$if\ false\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow t_3$ (E-IfFalse)

$\frac{t_1\rightarrow t_1'}{if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow if\ t_1'\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3}$ (E-If)

$\frac{t_2\rightarrow t_2'}{if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3\rightarrow if\ t_1\ then\ t_2'\ else\ t_3}$ (E-Funny2)

**Theroem 3.5.4** does not hold. A counter example: $t=if\ true\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ , where $t_2\rightarrow t_2'$ . By applying E-IfTrue and E-Funny2, we get $t\rightarrow t_2$ and $t\rightarrow\ if\ true\ then\ t_2'\ else\ t_3$ .

**Theroem 3.5.7** still holds. The proof is the same as previous.

**Theroem 3.5.8** still holds. The proof is the same as previous.

**Theroem 3.5.11** still holds. By structural induction on $t$. Since when $t=true$ or $t=false$ is the trival case, we only show proof when $t$ is in the form of $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ .

- case1: If the last rule used in the derivation of $t\rightarrow^*u$ is E-If, we know $t_1\rightarrow t_1'$. 
  - If the last rule used in the other derivation is also E-If, we proove it by the induction hypothesis immediately. 
  - If the last rule used in the other derivation is E-Funny2, we known that $t_2\rightarrow t_2'$ , and we have to proove that $if\ t_1'\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ finally evaluates to the same value as $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2'\ else\ t_3$. By **Theroem 3.5.12**(which will be prooved later), $u$ is evaluated from either $t_2$ or $t_3$ , and $u'$ is evaluated from either $t_2'$ or $t_3$ . By the induction hypothesis, $t_1$ and $t_1'$ finally evaluates to the same value, so when the first derivation evaluates from $t_2$, the second must evaluates from $t_2'$; and when the first one evaluates from $t_3$, so do the second one. By the induction hypothesis, $t_2$ and $t_2'$ finally evaluates to the same value. So the two derivations finally evaluates to the same value.
  - The last rule used in the other derivation cannot be E-If-True or E-If-False since $t_1$ is not in normal form.
- case2: If the last rule used in the derivation of $t\rightarrow^*u$ is E-Funny2. Analogous to case1.
- case3: If the last rule used in the derivation of $t \rightarrow^* u$ is E-If-True, then the last rule used in the other derivation is either E-If-True or E-Funny2.  
  - If the last rule used by the other derivation is E-If-True, we proove it by the induction hypothesis immediately.
  - If the last rule used by the other derivation is E-Funny2, the two derivations are $t \rightarrow t_2$ and $t \rightarrow if\ t_1\ then\ t_2'\ else\ t_3$ . We know that $t_1 \rightarrow^* true$ , so in the second derivation, $u$ must be evaluated from $t_2'$ . Since we have $t_2 \rightarrow^* t_2'$ , by induction hypothesis, $t_2$ and $t_2'$ have to evaluate to the same value. So the two derivations must evaluate to the same value.
- case4: If the last rule used in the derivation of $t\rightarrow^*u$ is E-If-False, analogous to case 3.

**Theroem 3.5.12** still holds. The proof is the same as previous.

## 3.5.16

### Statement

For any term $t$, the original semantic gets stuck **iff** $t\rightarrow^* wrong$ in the new semantic 

### Proof

$\Rightarrow$ :

We need to proove that if $t$ gets stuck in the original semantic, $t\rightarrow ^* wrong$ in the augmented semantic.

Structural induction on $t$:

- If $t$ is in form of  $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ , we may stuck in the following situations:
  
  - $t_1 \rightarrow ^* nv$ . By applying E-If-Wrong, we have $t \rightarrow ^* wrong$ in the augmented semantic.
  
  - $t_1$ gets stuck. By the induction hypothesis, $t_1\rightarrow ^*wrong$ in the augmented semantic. So by applying E-If-Wrong, we have $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$.
  
  - $t_1\rightarrow ^*true \wedge t_2\ stucks$ , By the induction hypothesis and E-If-True, we have $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$
  
  - $t_1\rightarrow ^*false \wedge t_3\ stucks$, same as the previous case.

- If $t$ is in form of $succ/pred/iszero\ t_1$ , we may stuck in the following situations:
  
  - $t_1 \rightarrow ^* bool$. By applying rules like E-Succ-Wrong, we have $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$ 
  
  - $t_1$ gets stuck. By induction hypothesis, $t_1 \rightarrow ^* wrong$ in the augmented semantic. By applying rules like E-Succ-Wrong, we have $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$.

$\Leftarrow$:

We need to proove that if $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$ in the augmented semantic, $t$ gets stuck in the original semantic.

Structural induction on $t$:

- If $t$ is in form of $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ , since $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$, only the following cases is possible(according to the evaluation rules):
  
  - $t_1 \rightarrow ^* badbool$ . 
    
    - If $t_1 \rightarrow ^* nv$, we get stuck on evaluating $t$ since the guard is not a boolean value
    
    - if $t_1 \rightarrow ^* wrong$, according to the induction hypothesis, we get stuck when evaluating $t_1$.
  
  - $t_1 \rightarrow ^* true \wedge t_2 \rightarrow ^* wrong$ , by applying E-If-True, $t\rightarrow ^*t_2$ . By the induction hypothesis, we get stuck when evaluating $t_2$ , so $t$ also stucks.
  
  - $t_1\rightarrow ^*false \wedge t_3\rightarrow ^*wrong$, same as the previous case.

- If $t$ is in form of $succ/pred/iszero\ t_1$ , since $t\rightarrow ^*wrong$, by the evaluation rules, we have $t_1 \rightarrow ^*badnat$.
  
  - $t_1 \rightarrow ^* bool$ , we stuck when evaluating terms like $succ\ true$.
  
  - $t_1 \rightarrow ^* wrong$, according to the induction hypothesis, $t_1$ stucks, so  $t$ stucks too.
