## 8.3.6
This property does NOT hold. A counter example:

$t=if\ true\ then\ 0\ else\ false$, and $t'=0$

We have $t': Nat$, but term $t$ is not well typed due to the conservation of our type derivation rules.

## 9.3.10
This property does NOT hold. A counter example:

$$t=(\lambda x:Bool\rightarrow Bool.\lambda y: Bool.y)(\lambda z: Bool\rightarrow Bool.z)$$

Both the left side and right side of $t$ are values, so we can apply beta-reduction resulting in $t'=\lambda y:Bool.y$. However, the left side of $t$ has type $(Bool\rightarrow Bool)\rightarrow Bool\rightarrow Bool$, which requires an argument of type $Bool\rightarrow Bool$. But the real argument, at the right side, has type $(Bool\rightarrow Bool)\rightarrow Bool\rightarrow Bool$. So it is not well typed.


## 11.9.1

First define type Bool as $Unit+Unit$, then $true$ as $inl\ unit$, $false$ as $inr\ unit$.

Subsequently, we have: $if\ t_1\ then\ t_2\ else\ t_3$ as: 

```
case t1 of
        inl x1 => t2
        | inr x2 => t3
```


## 11.12.1

Theroems with Booleans are proved in the text book, so we omit them. We only prove theroems with respect to Lists.

The **Progress** theroem does not hold. Consider term $head[T]\ nil[T]$, it's not a value, and can't be evaluated further.

Let's try to prove the **Preservation** theroem. We need to show that, if $t\rightarrow t'$, and $\Gamma\vdash t: T$, then $\Gamma\vdash t': T$.

By induction on the derivation of $\Gamma\vdash t: T$.
- Since $t$ can be further evaluated into $t'$, the last rule cannot be *T-NIL*
- If the last rule is *T-CONS*, we know that $t$ has a form of $cons[T_1]\ t_1\ t_2$, and $\Gamma\vdash t_1: T_1$ and $\Gamma\vdash t_2: T_1$. 
    - If $t_1\rightarrow t_1'$, by induction hypothesis, we have $\Gamma\vdash t_1': T_1$. So we have $t'= cons[T_1]\ t_1'\ t_2$, where we can apply *T-CONS* to $t'$.
    - If $t_1$ is a value, and $t_2\rightarrow t_2'$, similar as the previous case.
    - If both $t_1$ and $t_2$ are values, $t$ cannot be further evalated, which violates the predicates.
- If the last rule is *T-ISNIL*, we know that $t$ has a form of $isnil[T_{11}]\ t_1$, and $\Gamma\vdash t_1: List\ T_{11}$..
    - If there exist $t_1'$, so that $t_1\rightarrow t_1'$. By the induction hypothesis, $\Gamma\vdash t_1': List\ T_{11}$. By applying *E-ISNIL* and *T-ISNIL*, this case is proved.
    - If $t_1$ is a value, such as $nil[T_{11}]$ or $cons[T_{11}]\ v_1\ v_2$, obviously $t'$ has type $Boolean$.
- If the last rule is *T-HEAD* or *T-TAIL*, proof is similar to the previous case.

