## 13.5.8

### Normalization

Well-typed terms do NOT always terminate. An example (the compacted version of array update):

$$update := \lambda a:NatArray.\lambda i:Nat.\lambda v:Nat. \lambda j:Nat. a = if\ isequal\ i\ j\ then\ v\ else\ !a\ j$$

where $update$ is well typed, with type $NatArray\rightarrow Nat\rightarrow Nat\rightarrow NatArray$. However, due to the **call-by-value** strategy, when we try to access an updated array with an index which is absent from the entries, the $!a$ just dereferences into itself, not the array before updating, causing an infinite loop.

### Factorial

$$self:=ref(\lambda x: Nat.0)$$

$$fact:=\lambda x: Nat.if\ iszero\ x\ then\ 1\ else\ times\ x\ (!self (pred\ x))$$

$$self=fact$$

After we pack the three expressions into a sequence, we get the $fact$ as a recursive function to calculate the factorial of a nat.


## 14.3.1

We define the exceptions analogous to references.

### Grammar

Let's add a new base type named $T_{exn}$, and extend the definition of $term$ by adding the following derivations:

- $exn\ e\ of\ T\ in\ t$, where we define an exception *lable* named $e$ within the scope of $t$.
- $e(t)$, where we encapsule a term $t$ with an exception lable $e$ together to construct an exception.
- $case\ t_1\ of\ e(x)=>t_3|\_=>raise\ t_1$, where we match the exceptions by their lables, or re-raise the exception.


### Typing rules
The typing relations are defined on terms, naming context $\Gamma$ and exception types $\Sigma$. We add the following typing rules:

- $$\frac{\Gamma;\Sigma,e:T\vdash t: T'}{\Gamma;\Sigma\vdash exn\ e\ of\ T\ in\ t: T'}$$
- $$\frac{\Sigma(e):T \wedge \Gamma;\Sigma\vdash t: T}{\Gamma;\Sigma\vdash e(t): T_{exn}}$$
- $$\frac{\Gamma;\Sigma\vdash t_1:T_{exn}\wedge \Sigma(e):T'\wedge \Gamma,x:T';\Sigma\vdash t_3: T}{\Gamma;\Sigma\vdash case\ t_1\ of\ e(x)=>t_3|\_=>raise\ t_1:T}$$

### Evaluation rules
The evaluation relations are defined on terms, and tag store $\mu$. We add the following evaluation rules:

- $$\frac{e\not\in dom(\mu)}{exn\ e\ of\ T\ in\ t|\mu\rightarrow t|\mu, e: T}$$
- $$\frac{t|\mu\rightarrow t'|\mu'}{e(t)|\mu\rightarrow e(t')|\mu'}$$
- $$\frac{t_1|\mu\rightarrow t_1'|\mu'}{case\ t_1\ of\ e(x)=>t_3|\_=>raise\ t_1|\mu\rightarrow case\ t_1'\ of\ e(x)=>t_3|\_=>raise\ t_1'|\mu'}$$
- $$\frac{e_1=e_2}{case\ e_1(v)\ of\ e_2(x)=>t_3|\_=>raise\ e(v)|\mu\rightarrow [x↦v]t_3|\mu}$$
- $$\frac{e_1\not=e_2}{case\ e_1(v)\ of\ e_2(x)=>t_3|\_=>raise\ e(v)|\mu\rightarrow raise\ e_1(v)|\mu}$$